         Toward a formal proof of the Littlewood-Richardson Rule
         =======================================================


A symmetric polynomials is a polynomial in several variables which is
invariant under any permutations of those variables. The most important basis
of symmetric polynomial is the so called Schur basis. It has indeed numerous
applications ranging from computer algebra to group theory and quantum physics
and even possibly complexity theory. The Littlewood-Richardson coefficients
are the coefficients of the expansion in the Schur basis of the product of two
Schur polynomials. They are non-negative integers and in general, the most
efficient way to compute them is to count the number of certain combinatorial
objects called L-R tableaux. The algorithm enumerating those objects and
counting them is called the Littlewood-Richardson Rule.

The combinatorial object appearing here are some kind of two dimensional
arrays filled with numbers called Young tableaux. In algorithmics, those
tableaux are used in Schensted's algorithm to compute the longest length of a
non-decreassing subsequence of a finite sequence. This algorithm defines a
bijection between finite sequences and pairs of tableaux of the same shape.
Sch√ºtzenberger proof of the LR-rule needs a very fine analysis of this
algorithms. In particular, a crucial ingredient is a remark due to Knuth that
two sequences give the same tableau under Schensted algorithm if they are
connected under a specific rewriting rule. As a consequence, the algorithms
has a certain associativity property leading to the definition of a monoid
called the plactic monoid.

In the talk, I'll try to present my ongoing development in Coq/SSReflect of a
formal proof of the L-R rule. I'll focus in particular on the algorithmic and
combinatorial part. Here are the steps:
 - Schensted's algorithms and it's specification;
 - the Robinson-Schensted is a bijection;
 - Green's invariants: given a sequence w, the Robinson-Schensted algorithm
 actually compute the maximum sum of the length of k disjoint non-decreassing
 subsequences of w.
 - Knuth relations and the plactic monoid.
